4.
And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We will eat our own bread,
and wear our own apparel. Only let us be called by thy name, to take away our reproach.
And in that day shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth
shall be excellent and comely for them that are escaped of Israel. And it shall come to pass,
that he that is left in Zion, and he that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy,
even every one that is written among the living in Jerusalem. When the Lord shall have washed away
the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from the midst
thereof, by the spirit of judgment, and by the spirit of burning. And the Lord will create upon
every dwelling place of Mount Zion, and upon her assemblies a cloud and smoke by day, and the
glory shall be a defense. And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime from the
heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert from the storm and from rain. 5.
Now will I sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My well-beloved
hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill. And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof,
and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a wine
press therein. And he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.
And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you,
betwixt me and my vineyard, what could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done in
it? Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?
And now go, too, I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will take away the hedge thereof,
and it shall be eaten up, and break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down.
And I will lay it waste. It shall not be pruned nor digged, but there shall come up briars and
thorns. I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it. For the vineyard of the
Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant. And he looked for
judgment but behold oppression, for righteousness but behold a cry. Woe unto them that join house
to house, that lay field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the
midst of the earth. In mine ears, said the Lord of hosts, of a truth many houses shall be desolate,
even great and fair without inhabitant. Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath,
and the seed of an homer shall yield an ephah. Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning,
that they may follow strong drink, that continue until night, till wine inflame them. And the harp,
and the vial, the tabret, and pipe, and wine are in their feasts. But they regard not the work of
the Lord, neither consider the operation of his hands. Therefore my people are gone into captivity,
because they have no knowledge, and their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up
with thirst. Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure,
and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth shall descend into it.
And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled,
and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled. But the Lord of hosts shall be exalted in judgment,
and God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness. Then shall the lambs feed
after their manor, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers eat. Woe unto them that
draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were with a cart-rope, that say, Let him make speed
and hasten his work that we may see it, and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh
and come that we may know it. Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil, that put darkness
for light, and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter. Woe unto them
that are wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight. Woe unto them that are mighty
to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink, which justify the wicked for reward,
and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him. Therefore, as the fire devoureth the
stubble, and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be as rottenness, and their blossom
shall go up as dust, because they have cast away the law of the Lord of hosts, and despised the
word of the Holy One of Israel. Therefore is the anger of the Lord kindled against his people,
and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them, and the hills did tremble,
and their carcasses were torn in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away,
but his hand is stretched out still, and he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far,
and will hiss unto them from the end of the earth, and behold, they shall come with speed swiftly.
None shall be weary nor stumble among them, none shall slumber nor sleep, neither shall the girdle
of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken, whose arrows are sharp,
and all their bows bent, their horses' hooves shall be counted like flint, and their wheels
like a whirlwind. Their roaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar like young lions, yea,
they shall roar and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry it away safe, and none shall deliver it.
And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea, and if one look unto the
land, behold, darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.
Chapter 6 In the year that King Uzziah died I saw also the Lord, sitting upon a throne high
and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims,
each one had six wings, with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet,
and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord
of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of
him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone,
because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips,
for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me,
having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar.
And he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken
away, and thy sin purged. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send,
and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I, send me. And he said, Go, and tell this people,
hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see ye indeed, but perceive not. Make the heart of
people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes,
and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.
Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant,
and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate, and the Lord have removed
men far away, and there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land. But yet in it shall be a
tenth, and it shall return, and shall be eaten, as a teal tree, and as an oak, whose substance
is in them. When they cast their leaves, so the holy seed shall be the substance thereof.